To whom it may concern,

I'm an applied physicist, having recently completed a post-doctoral fellowship at CERN (the European Centre for Particle Physics) in the technology department. This background within an international organisation during the past six years, working on both the development of future equipment upgrades and problem solving of existing equipment I believe makes me a good fit for the position of Experimental Physicist at Base 4.

My previous position involved the systematic evaluation of new designs and techniques for the RF performance of pulsed electromagnets using both commercial simulation tools, my own software models and laboratory measurements in a consistent manner, and presenting this work at international conferences and to specialist and non-specialist teams within CERN. I believe this meshes well with Base4's pragmatic approach to product design, where existing technologies are used where possible so that effort may be focused on areas where innovative ideas will have an impact. An exciting part of proposing performance upgrades was in rapidly acquiring functional familiarity with new technologies and processes to ensure that they were compatible with the magnets operational parameters, which often required novel approaches due to conflicting requirements. I lead the development of a number of new experimental setups to test to examine the RF properties of, for example, new geometries or surface coatings that were applied for high voltage or thermal reasons. In each case I was responsible for defining experimental goals and parameters, and supervising the mechanical design. As a result of one successful proposal we were able to reduce a RF heating problem that was limiting the operational availability of the LHC to gain a factor 4 margin of safety. In addition I maintained a Python library of anaylsis tools related to RF behaviour of accelerator components. Although this is not directly in the field of optics or microfluidics, the expertise in precision measurements from RF measurements would be applicable, as the need for precision and careful consideration of experimental design is common between the two.

The CosmicPi project (https://cosmicpi.org) of which I'm currently a member is a self-organised project to build a cheap cosmic ray detector, of which we necessarily had to learn to build read-out electronics and interface them with microcontrollers, such as C routines on an Arduino, by ourselves. As part of this, and my work in science outreach, communicative and informative data presentation is a skill I have experimented with to deliver clear and effective information to users. This project demonstrates my self-motivation to work on projects that catch my interest, and develop the skills necessary to bring them to fruitition, be they personal skills in finding partners with motivation and specialist skills that might be lacking, or technical skills to achieve the goals set.

The accompanying CV contains further details of my experience, and I am keen to learn more about the Experimental Physicist position at Base4. I look forwards to your response.

Yours sincerely,
Hugo Day
