To whom it may concern,

I'm an applied physicist, having recently completed a post-doctoral fellowship at CERN (the European Centre for Particle Physics) in the technology department. This has involved working on technically challenging physical problems on both the development of future equipment upgrades and problem solving of existing equipment in an international environment.

My previous position involved the systematic evaluation of new designs and techniques for the electromagnetic performance of pulsed electromagnets, using standard EM simulation tools, custom code (predominantly in Python, with some use of MATLAB) and laboratory measurements in a consistent manner, and presenting this work at international conferences and to specialist and non-specialist teams within CERN. An exciting part of proposing performance upgrades was in rapidly acquiring functional familiarity with new technologies and processes to ensure that they were compatible with the magnets operational parameters, which often required novel approaches due to conflicting requirements. Responding to current operational problems involved evaluating various data sources (thermal sensors, electrical monitoring, vacuum gauges) to establish potential patterns in faulty operation. This might involve comparing data of varying time scales (microsecond electronics affecting second scale vacuum responses) and inferred secondary parameters.

As an example, using this method we were able to infer that long-term heating of our magnets during accelerator operation was related to electromagnetic losses by the particle beam, and could subsequently map the heating and the thermal distribution from simulations to experimental measurements, and subsequently propose a redesign which reduced power loss in half whilst doubling beam current. In particular this work involved evaluating the effects of changing time domain current signals in the frequency domain current spectrum, involving spectral analysis and use of RF measurements and simulations, which would be directly applicable to signal processing and have given me an in-depth understanding of electromagnetics and wave physics. As part of good working practice to promote code reuse I took to maintaining a public repository of analysis code and examples for similar work at CERN.

As a side project I contribute to The CosmicPi project (https://cosmicpi.org), aimed at building a cheap cosmic ray detector, of which we necessarily had to learn to build read-out electronics and interface them with microcontrollers, such as C routines on an Arduino, by ourselves. My part in this project is predominantly physics analysis and visualisation, looking at ways to present this data in a meaningful way. This project demonstrates my self-motivation to work on projects that catch my interest, and develop the skills necessary to bring them to fruitition, be they personal skills in finding partners with motivation and specialist skills that might be lacking, or technical skills to achieve the goals set.

The accompanying CV contains further details of my experience, and I am interested in hearing more about the opportunities at Zetica. I look forwards to your response.

Yours sincerely,
Hugo Day
