To whom it may concern,

I'm an applied physicist, having recently completed a post-doctoral fellowship at CERN (the European Centre for Particle Physics) in the technology department. This background within an international organisation during the past six years, working on both the development of future equipment upgrades and problem solving of existing equipment I believe makes me a good fit for the Numerical Software Graduate position at FiveAI.

My previous position involved the systematic evaluation of new designs and techniques for the electromagnetic performance of pulsed electromagnets, using predominantly Python routines to analyse data from different simulation tools and laboratory measurements in a consistent manner, and presenting this work at international conferences and to specialist and non-specialist teams within CERN. An exciting part of proposing performance upgrades was in rapidly acquiring functional familiarity with new technologies and processes and interfacing them with the existing technologies of our systems. Responding to current operational problems involved evaluating various data sources (thermal sensors, electrical monitoring, vacuum gauges) to establish potential patterns in faulty operation. This might involve comparing data of varying time scales (microsecond electronics affecting second scale vacuum responses) and inferred secondary parameters. Using this method we were able to infer that long-term heating of our magnets during accelerator operation was related to electromagnetic losses by the particle beam, and could subsequently map the heating and the thermal distribution from simulations to experimental measurements, and subsequently propose a redesign which reduced power loss in half whilst doubling beam current. This background of taking multi-variate data and developing functional system models using the available data has led to developing an interest in data science and subsequently studying it in my own time. I believe a position at FiveAI would be a good fit at my practical background would provide a good grounding for developing data science and machine learning skills in such an applied field as automated driving. As part of this I'm currently following a number of online courses on data science and follow challenges on kaggle.com.

The CosmicPi project of which I'm currently a member is a project to build a cheap cosmic ray detector.  My part in this project is physics analysis and visualisation which resulted from my interest in finding patterns in data - cosmic rays are a science where being able to pull together data from multiple experiments could substantially improve the efficacy of research and part of the project is establishing a shared data framework with other cosmic ray experiments of different designs, and eventually a shared analysis platform. This project demonstrates my self-motivation to work on projects that catch my interest, and develop the skills necessary to bring them to fruitition, be they in using interpersonal skills in finding partners with motivation and specialist skills that might be lacking, or technical skills to achieve the goals set.

The accompanying CV contains further details of my experience, and I hope you will consider my application at FiveAI.

Yours sincerely,
Hugo Day
